6.170 Project 1: Conway's Game of Life
=====
*Christian Mata*

For the first project in 6.170, Conway's Game of Life was assigned. In this implementation, the Rules were taken from Wikipedia's article. This implementation chose to follow a typical Model-View-Controller paradigm. There are three main Javascript files, *index.js*, which has the controller code and the main function, *model.js*, which has the board model, and *view.js*, which has the graph view logic. This paradigm was followed to give the program a certain level of abstraction and modularity as well as to prevent tightly coupling the logic. The use of abstraction and modularity will allow for easy reuse of the logic for the next phase of the project. 

###Rules

1. Any live cell with fewer than two live neighbors dies, as if caused by under-population.
2. Any live cell with two or three live neighbors lives on to the next generation.
3. Any live cell with more than three live neighbors dies, as if by overcrowding.
4. Any dead cell with exactly three live neighbors becomes a live cell, as if by reproduction.

(Source: [ Wikipedia Conway's Game of Life])

##Programming

###Highlights
One of the main objectives of this project was to practice using functional programming and closures. Throughout the development of the Game of Life, functional programming format was implemented and utilized. In [index.js Line 47], there is a good example of functional programming and the use of anonymous functions to start the entire game of life. 

Furthermore, another good example of functional programming and use of closures can be found in the *model.js* while creating the BoardModel object. Starting on [model.js Line 22] and continuing forward, the BoardModel constructor function returns a BoardModel object that has functions that utilize closures to manage the scope that they are called in. 

A final highlight would be the overall implementation MVC implementation. The project was easily broken down into three modules of the MVC paradigm. The use of abstraction simplified the board model into a single class with only four public methods, the view class and the controller class each only had a single public method.

##Design 
###Coding Challenges
####1. Game of Life Time Display: 
One of the main challenges of the Game of Life project is choosing the a good way to handle generations. One possible choice is to have two board instances, 'current' and 'next'. In this case, the 'current' would be displayed and then the 'next' would be generated by applying the rules to the 'current'. Once, 'next' is created, it would be set as 'current' and then drawn. 
Another option would be to use one data structure to handle the game of life and then use functions to modify the state and apply it using closures.

In the end, I chose to do a combination of the two options. I chose to make a function that was use a closure to the current set and then applied the rules to the set to generate the new board. Then using a setter method, I reassigned the set to the newly generated set.

####2. Graphical Interface: 
With the assignment, we're given flexibility in deciding which form to graphically display Conway's Game of Life. From other projects, I could use a more complex Javascript library that would present the material better, such as D3.js or two.js, but that would be more work than required. At this point, I think displaying good design and use of functional programming would be the priority, which would explain why a simple graphics library was provided. A third option to consider would be to use a DOM, such as a HTML table, display that could preemptively plan for the second phase of the assignment.

In the end, I chose to use the graphics package that was provided. This allows me to focus on developing the Game of Life code and also provides practice with working within some given code base. 

####3. Board Data Structure: 
To hold the cell statuses, I had the option of using either an array of arrays or an object with objects to represent each of the cells. 

For this project in general, the grid layout lends itself well to the array of arrays data structure. Also when using nested for loops, indexing into the data structure is simplified ([See view.js Line 42]).

[ Wikipedia Conway's Game of Life]:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Conway's_Game_of_Life
[index.js Line 47]: https://github.com/6170-fa14/cmata_proj1/blob/master/index.js#L47
[model.js Line 22]: https://github.com/6170-fa14/cmata_proj1/blob/master/model.js#L22
[See view.js Line 42]:https://github.com/6170-fa14/cmata_proj1/blob/master/view.js#L42